the squat is possibly the most useful
and functional exercise out there today
i want to share a 30-day plan that you
can use to improve your legs strength
endurance and mobility
so over the last 10 years i've done a
lot of squatting from barbell variations
to then moving into body weight more
challenging single leg variations but
the focus has always been on intensity
either more weight on the bar or a
harder variation but over the last few
months i took on a new experiment and
that was to do
the basic two leg body weight squat now
be honest in the past
i thought this was too basic for me but
what i found is that i was overlooking a
huge component of fitness and that's
building a bigger base of strength
capacity with the basics so the results
have been this i've had more endurance
for things like walking hiking and
running i've actually been quite
surprised how much more pep in my step
i've had on longer hikes it's easier to
access the deep squat position it's
simple if you spend more time in a
position your body will allow you to go
there easier and this has made my ankles
knees and hips feel really good and
lastly less overall fatigue the
bodyweight squat is not very demanding
on your system so you can do it more
often and still be fresh for other
activities and if you're anything like
me it's been ingrained into you that leg
day means you should be walking out of
the gym with
wobbly legs and sore for the next three
days but for those of us that value
feeling good and being active every day
it's a poor mindset seeking more
strength with less fatigue allows us to
be more useful in everyday life so what
are the negatives to this style of
training
well you're not going to have
bodybuilder legs you need more
resistance for that and you might not be
able to lift a car up just from doing
bodyweight squats but assuming that
those aren't your goals let's dive into
this plan so you're going to pick a
number of squats that just starts to
fatigue you on the last rep or two
because your legs support you all day
long they're already fairly strong so
this number should be higher than say
your pull-ups maybe 10
15 20 even 30. for me i landed on 20
reps being comfortable
but just causing the slightest fatigue
at rep 20. now choose a number of days
per week to do your squats i'd recommend
three but if you have a strong base you
can do four
if you're a true beginner you might even
just do two now begin with just two sets
of your squats per day on the first week
this should be very easy and almost feel
like not enough now each week you'll add
an additional set per day so for me week
one i did two sets of 20 reps three days
per week now by week four i was doing
five sets of 20 reps 3 days per week so
i went from a total of 120 reps on that
first week to 300 reps on week 4. your
body loves it when you gradually
increase the volume over time and once
again you shouldn't be getting too sore
or causing too much fatigue because of
this gradual ramp up now here's where we
get even more out of these squats
at the end of each set i want you to
stand up you can kind of shake out your
legs for a sec and then sit back down
into the bottom of your squat position
for at least a minute the best time to
establish your deep squat position is
when your legs are already warmed up
from doing squats so this is a good way
to use our strength sessions to also
increase our mobility so personally for
me i've also enjoyed raising up on my
toes between each squat this allows me
to work my calves obviously
but it also allows the calves to release
more and let me get deeper into my squat
position at the bottom so seek a range
of motion that's as deep as possible for
you trying to get your thigh to touch
your calf is a good goal to shoot for
and if you're having trouble
getting this range of motion
elevate your heels elevating your heels
will allow you to get deeper and it also
shifts more weight into your toes which
puts more stress on the quads for me
personally even though i don't need much
assistance in my range of motion i still
do about half of my sets with my heels
raised in order to
drive more quad pump so after 30 days
assess how you feel by now you should
have
doubled the amount of squats you're
doing per week and test if your range of
motion has increased feel free to repeat
this 30-day cycle with using a higher
rep count so if you did it with 20
you can do it again with 25 or even 30.
so for me personally i've been traveling
for the last two months and this has
been really really efficient for me with
no equipment and having a little bit
less time for training have any of you
guys experimented with using the
oh so simple bodyweight squat comment
below i'd love to hear what your results
are like and if you have any questions
about this 30 day squat plan pop them
below and i'll do my best to give you an
answer hit that like button subscribe
for videos every friday and
as always
[Music]